SAFE PRIMER

 

	A safe is a Simple Agreement for Future Equity. An investor makes a cash
investment in a company, but gets company stock at a later date, in connection
with a specific event.  A safe is not a debt instrument, but is intended to be
an alternative to convertible notes that is beneficial for both companies and
investors.

 

	Why

1.	Debt instruments have requirements – including regulations, interest accrual,
maturity dates, the threat of insolvency and in some cases, security interests
and subordination agreements. These requirements can have unintended negative
consequences.

2.	A safe is intended to be simple for both companies and investors, with the
usual path to agreement requiring the negotiation of only one item – the
“valuation cap.”

3.	A simple equity security has the potential to become standardized, and a
standardized form has the benefits of certainty and speed, which in turn results
in lower (or zero) transaction costs for companies and investors.

 

When

 

	Most startups need to raise money soon after formation in order to fund
operations, and the safe can be a vehicle for investors to fund companies at
that very early stage.  Unlike the sale of equity in traditional priced rounds
of financing, a company can issue a safe quickly and efficiently, without
multiple documents and the necessity of a charter amendment.  As a flexible,
one-document security, without numerous terms to negotiate, the safe should save
companies and investors money and time.

 

	How

 

	The investor and the company agree on the valuation cap, mutually date and sign
a safe and the investor sends the company the investment amount.  What happens
next? Nothing, until the occurrence of one of the specific events described in a
safe.  In the meantime, an outstanding safe would be referenced on the company’s
cap table like any other convertible security (such as a warrant or an option).

 

	Q & A

•	Does a safe convert at a round of equity financing?  Yes, when the company
decides to sell shares of preferred stock in a priced round, an outstanding safe
will convert into shares of preferred stock.  There is no threshold amount that
the company must raise to trigger the conversion.

•	What if the pre-money valuation of the company in the financing is higher than
the Valuation Cap in a safe?  The holder of a safe gets a number of shares of
preferred stock calculated using the Valuation Cap, not the higher pre-money
valuation.  However, the preferred stock that a safe holder is issued will have
a liquidation preference that is equal to the original safe investment amount,
rather than based on the price of the shares issued to the investors of new
money in the financing.  This feature means that the liquidation preference for
safe holders does not exceed the original investment amount (a 1x preference).
For example, if the company issues Series A preferred stock in the financing, a
safe holder would be issued Series A-1 preferred stock, the only difference
being the name and the share price attributable to that series. See Example 1 in
Appendix II.

•	What is the difference between Safe Preferred Stock and Standard Preferred
Stock? Safe Preferred Stock will be a separate series of preferred stock issued
in the Equity Financing, commonly referred to as “shadow preferred” or
“sub-series” preferred stock.  Safe Preferred Stock will have the same rights,
privileges, preferences and obligations as Standard Preferred Stock, but the
liquidation preference, conversion price, and dividend rate will be calculated
based on the price per share of the Safe Preferred Stock.  The price per share
of Safe Preferred Stock is determined by dividing the Valuation Cap in a safe by
the company’s fully diluted outstanding capitalization (the “Company
Capitalization,” described below).  See Example 1 in Appendix II.

•	What if the pre-money valuation of the company in the Equity Financing is lower
than the Valuation Cap in a safe? The Valuation Cap is inapplicable in this
situation.  A safe holder gets the same preferred stock, at the same price, with
the same liquidation preference, as the other investors of new money in the
financing.  See Example 2 in Appendix II.

•	Do safe holders get pro rata rights? Yes, when they become stockholders of the
company.  As holders of preferred stock, former safe holders will have a
pre-emptive right to purchase more shares if and when the company raises another
round of financing. This pro rata right must be in either the Equity Financing
documents or a side letter.  Please consider this pro rata right carefully.
There is no dollar threshold on this right – even an investor putting the
smallest amount of money into your company will get pro rata rights.  If it is
not acceptable to you to have every investor holding pro rata rights going
forward, consider adding a dollar threshold.  See Appendix I for sample
language.

•	Does a safe holder have a choice about converting a safe in an equity
financing?  No, conversion in an Equity Financing is automatic and the safe then
terminates.  A safe is intended to turn safe holders into stockholders.

•	What happens to a safe if a company is acquired or merges with another company?
In a “change of control” transaction, a safe holder can convert a safe into
shares of common stock, calculated based on the Valuation Cap, or have its
investment returned.  A safe holder will decide which of these two options is
more advantageous, depending on the terms of the merger or acquisition.  See
Example 4 and Example 5 in Appendix II.

•	What is the difference between Company Capitalization and Liquidity
Capitalization? “Company Capitalization” is the company’s fully diluted
outstanding capital stock as calculated at the time of an Equity Financing.  If
a company intends to adopt an equity incentive plan in connection with the
Equity Financing, Company Capitalization includes the shares allocated to that
plan.  If a company has already adopted an equity incentive plan, Company
Capitalization includes all shares reserved under that plan, as well as any plan
increases contemplated in connection with the Equity Financing. “Liquidity
Capitalization” is a company’s fully diluted outstanding capitalization as
calculated at the time of a Liquidity Event.  This calculation includes
outstanding options (vested and unvested) under an equity incentive plan, but
excludes all unissued shares in the plan.

•	What happens to a safe if the company goes public? If a company goes public, a
safe will convert into shares of common stock calculated based on the Valuation
Cap (or the safe holder can cash out the safe).

•	Does a safe ever expire?  A safe has no maturity date.  A safe is designed to
expire and terminate only when a safe holder has received stock or cash, in an
equity financing, change of control transaction, IPO or dissolution – whichever
occurs first.  In theory, a safe could remain outstanding for a long time
without the need to “extend” any dates or time periods.  A safe can be amended
by the company and the safe holder, if necessary. See Example 6 in Appendix II.

•	What happens to a safe if the company shuts down and goes out of business?  In
a dissolution, any money that the company has to distribute would be distributed
to safe holders before any money is allocated to holders of common stock.

•	Can a safe have a discount, or a “Most Favored Nation” provision?  Yes.  This
Primer describes a safe with a Valuation Cap only (a “Standard Safe”).  Other
versions of the safe are described in Appendix I.

Appendix I

 

Alternative Versions of a Safe

 

(“Standard” version of a safe is Valuation Cap only)

1.	Cap and Discount

•	This is a safe with a negotiated Valuation Cap and Discount Rate.  Either the
Valuation Cap or the Discount Rate applies when converting this safe into shares
of Safe Preferred Stock.

•	The Discount Rate applies to the price per share of the Standard Preferred
Stock sold in the Equity Financing.  If this calculation results in a greater
number of shares of Safe Preferred Stock for the investor, the price per share
based on the Valuation Cap is disregarded (and vice versa).  See Example 7 in
Appendix II.

•	The conversion of this safe in a Liquidity Event is the same as a Standard
Safe.

2.	Discount, No Cap

•	This is a safe with a negotiated Discount Rate, e.g., a 20% discount off the
price per share of the Standard Preferred Stock, applied to the conversion of
this safe into shares of Safe Preferred Stock.  See Example 8 in Appendix II.

•	If the safe is converting in a Liquidity Event, the investor could elect to
have the Purchase Amount repaid, or to convert the safe into shares of common
stock, based on the fair market value of the common stock at the time of the
Liquidity Event with the Discount Rate applied to the common stock price.

3.	No Cap or Discount, MFN Provision

•	This is a safe with no Valuation Cap and no Discount Rate.  If the company
subsequently issues safes with provisions that are advantageous to the investors
holding this safe (such as a valuation cap and/or a discount rate), this safe
can be amended to reflect the terms of the later-issued safes.  The amendment
term is the so-called “MFN Provision.”   Note that, unless the later safes
include an MFN, the MFN of the original safe is amended away once the safe
holder decides the MFN is triggered.  In other words, the MFN provision
typically provides only one opportunity to amend the original safe, not multiple
opportunities as the company continues to issue additional safes.

•	If there is an Equity Financing before this safe is amended pursuant to the MFN
Provision, the investor would receive the same shares of preferred stock as the
investors of new money in the Equity Financing, at the same price.  However,
this safe does not automatically convert into shares of preferred stock unless
the amount of new money raised in the Equity Financing is at least \$250,000.
This threshold amount provides the investor with some protection against an
insignificant equity round raised at an artificially high valuation.

•	If there is a Liquidity Event before this safe is amended by the MFN Provision,
the investor could elect to have the Purchase Amount repaid, or to convert the
safe into shares of common stock, based on the fair market value of the common
stock at the time of the Liquidity Event.

Notes about the Pro Rata Right

•	If all of your prospective investors want pro rata rights and you agree to give
each such investor pro rata rights, use the safe as-is – no changes are required
to the template.  If this is your decision, be aware that changing your mind
about giving these rights at the time of the Equity Financing is not fair to
these early investors.

•	If you only want to give pro rata rights to certain investors, you can revise
the template safe.  If you want to use the exact same form of safe for every
investor, put in a threshold in the definition of “Pro Rata Rights Agreement” in
Section 2 as follows:

“Pro Rata Rights Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and
the Investor (and holders of other Safes, as appropriate), provided the Purchase
Amount of this instrument is not less than [\$\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_],
giving the Investor a right to purchase its pro rata share of private placements
of securities by the Company occurring after the Equity Financing, subject to
customary exceptions. Pro rata for purposes of the Pro Rata Rights Agreement
will be calculated based on the ratio of (1) the number of shares of Capital
Stock owned by the Investor immediately prior to the issuance of the securities
to (2) the total number of shares of outstanding Capital Stock on a fully
diluted basis, calculated as of immediately prior to the issuance of the
securities.

•	If you want to create a tailored safe for each investor, for any investor to
whom you will NOT be giving pro rata rights, edit the template safe to (1)
remove Section 1(a)(ii) entirely and (2) remove the definition of Pro Rata
Rights Agreement from Section 2.  Section 1(a) should look as follows
(subsection (i) can be collapsed into subsection (a)):

(a)	Equity Financing. If there is an Equity Financing before the expiration or
termination of this instrument, the Company will automatically issue to the
Investor either: (1) a number of shares of Standard Preferred Stock equal to the
Purchase Amount divided by the price per share of the Standard Preferred Stock,
if the pre-money valuation is less than or equal to the Valuation Cap; or (2) a
number of shares of Safe Preferred Stock equal to the Purchase Amount divided by
the Safe Price, if the pre-money valuation is greater than the Valuation Cap.
In connection with the issuance of Standard Preferred Stock or Safe Preferred
Stock, as applicable, by the Company to the Investor pursuant to this Section
1(a), the Investor will execute and deliver to the Company all transaction
documents related to the Equity Financing; provided, that such documents are the
same documents to be entered into with the purchasers of Standard Preferred
Stock, with appropriate variations for the Safe Preferred Stock if applicable,
and provided further, that such documents have customary exceptions to any
drag-along applicable to the Investor, including, without limitation, limited
representations and warranties and limited liability and indemnification
obligations on the part of the Investor.

Appendix II

\*\*Please note that many of the numbers discussed below are rounded\*\*

Example 1

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is \$5,000,000.

•	The company negotiates with investors to sell \$1,000,000 worth of Series A
Preferred Stock at a \$10,000,000 pre-money valuation.  The company’s
fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately prior to the financing,
including a 1,000,000 share option pool to be adopted in connection with the
financing, is 11,000,000 shares.

The company will issue and sell 1,100,110 shares of Series A Preferred at
\$0.909 per share to the new investors.  The company will issue and sell 220,022
shares of Series A-1 Preferred to the safe holder, at \$0.4545 per share.

In the safe, the Series A Preferred is referred to as “Standard Preferred Stock”
and the Series A-1 Preferred is referred to as “Safe Preferred Stock.”  The
table below sets forth a comparison between the Standard Preferred and the Safe
Preferred, as each would be described in the company’s certificate of
incorporation:

 

Standard Preferred Stock

Safe Preferred Stock

Liquidation preference on a per share basis:

\$0.90

\$0.4545

Aggregate payout in a change of control transaction (each series pari passu with
the other):

\$1,000,000

\$100,000

Conversion price and original issuance price at the time of the Series A
Preferred financing:

\$0.90

(initially converts into 1,100,110 shares of common stock)

\$0.4545

(initially converts into 220,022 shares of common stock)

Dividend Rate per share (based on an 8% dividend):

\$0.072

\$0.036

Example 2

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is \$4,000,000.

•	The company negotiates with investors to sell \$600,000 worth of Series AA
Preferred Stock at a \$3,000,000 pre-money valuation.  The company’s
fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately prior to the financing,
including a 500,000 share option pool to be adopted in connection with the
financing, is 12,500,000 shares.

The company will issue and sell 2,500,000 shares of Series AA Preferred at
\$0.24 per share to the new investors.  The Company will issue and sell an
additional 416,666 shares of Series AA Preferred to the safe holder at the same
price per share.  There is no difference between the Series AA Preferred issued
to the new investors and the Series AA Preferred issued to the safe holder, and
the references to “Safe Preferred Stock” in this case are inapplicable.

Example 3

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is \$8,000,000.

•	The company negotiates with investors to sell \$2,000,000 worth of Series A
Preferred Stock at an \$8,000,000 pre-money valuation.  The company’s
fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately prior to the financing,
including a 1,500,000 share option pool to be adopted in connection with the
financing, is 11,500,000 shares.

The company will issue and sell 2,875,215 shares of Series A Preferred at
\$0.6956 per share to the new investors.  The company will issue and sell an
additional 143,760 shares of Series A Preferred to the safe holder at the same
price per share.  As in Example 2, there is no difference between the Series A
Preferred issued to the new investors and the Series A Preferred issued to the
safe holder.

Example 4

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is
\$10,000,000.

•	Another entity proposes to acquire the company for cash consideration of
\$50,000,000. The company’s fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately
prior to the acquisition, including 1,500,000 outstanding options but excluding
any unallocated shares in the option pool, is 11,500,000 shares.

The investor can choose to have the safe purchase amount returned, or convert
the safe into shares of common stock and receive the cash consideration with the
other common stockholders.   The safe would convert into 115,008 shares of
common stock, based on the “Liquidity Price” of \$0.8695 per share (the
Liquidity Price is calculated by dividing 10,000,000 by 11,500,000).  When the
\$50,000,000 deal consideration is allocated pro rata among all of the common
stockholders, including the investor (and assuming the outstanding options are
all exercised), the investor would receive approximately \$495,074.  Since this
amount is considerably more than the \$100,000 purchase amount, the investor
would elect to convert the safe.

Example 5

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is \$6,000,000.

•	Another entity proposes to acquire the company for cash consideration of
\$200,000. The company’s fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately
prior to the acquisition, including 795,000 outstanding options but excluding
any unallocated shares in the option pool, is 10,795,000 shares.

The investor can choose to have the safe purchase amount returned, or convert
the safe into shares of common stock and participate pro rata in the cash
consideration with the other common stockholders.   The safe would convert into
179,920 shares of common stock, based on the “Liquidity Price” of \$0.5558 per
share (the Liquidity Price is calculated by dividing 6,000,000 by 10,795,000).
When the \$200,000 deal consideration is allocated pro rata among all of the
common stockholders, including the investor (and assuming: (1) the outstanding
options are all exercised; (2) there is no outstanding debt; and (3) for
purposes of this example, there is only the one outstanding safe), the investor
would receive approximately \$3,274.  This dollar amount is calculated by
dividing the \$200,000 deal consideration among 10,974,920 shares of outstanding
common stock, resulting in \$0.0182 per share (179,920 shares multiplied by
\$0.0182 = \$3,274.54).  Since this amount is considerably less than the
\$100,000 purchase amount, the investor would elect to cash out the safe in
connection with the transaction.

Example 6

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is \$7,000,000.

•	The company grows, generates revenue and becomes cash flow positive, and
therefore does not need to raise outside capital.  The company has no
acquisition offers and no plans to go public.

The safe will remain outstanding until the company has a liquidity event, even
if that liquidity event doesn’t happen for years after the original date of
purchase.

Example 7

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$100,000.  The Valuation Cap is \$8,000,000
and the Discount Rate is 85%.

•	The company has negotiated with investors to sell \$1,000,000 worth of Series A
Preferred Stock at a \$10,000,000 pre-money valuation.  The company’s
fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately prior to the financing,
including a 1,000,000 share option pool to be adopted in connection with the
financing, is 11,000,000 shares.

The company will issue and sell 1,100,110 shares of Series A Preferred at
\$0.909 per share to the new investors.  The company will issue Series A-1
Preferred to the safe holder, based on the Valuation Cap or the Discount Rate,
whichever results in a lower price per share. The 15% discount applied to the
per share price of the Series A Preferred is \$0.77265. The Valuation Cap
results in a price per share of \$0.72727.  Accordingly, the company will issue
137,500 shares of Series A-1 Preferred to the safe holder, at \$0.72727 per
share. The Discount Rate does not apply in this case.

Example 8

•	Investor has purchased a safe for \$20,000.  The Discount Rate is 80%.

•	The company has negotiated with investors to sell \$400,000 worth of Series AA
Preferred Stock at a \$2,000,000 pre-money valuation.  The company’s
fully-diluted outstanding capital stock immediately prior to the financing is
10,500,000 shares.

The company will issue and sell 2,105,263 shares of Series AA Preferred at
\$0.19 per share to the new investors. The 20% discount applied to the per share
price of the Series AA Preferred is \$0.152. Accordingly, the company will issue
131,578 shares of Series AA-1 Preferred to the safe holder, at \$0.152 per
share.
